Add 1 week iteration workflow for engineering (#867)
2i2c-org/team-compass: engineering/workflow/1-week-iteration-worklflow.md

# Hyper focus and learning workflow (1-week iterations)

:::{admonition} Why?
This workflow is intended to support our efficiency push resulting from our 2024 team retreat.
:::

The goal of the 1-week iteration system of work is to:
1. deliver work items aligned to our product roadmap
1. support the Partnerships team in the grant writing process (supporting our short-term funding needs).

## Guiding Principle - Move the team forward!

We introduce a new principle called **Principle 1** into our diction that is intended to help guide our decisions when there are ambiguities related to our process.

> **Principle 1**; General statement that is true 90% of the time: Better to always move forward than not moving forward once we are moving forward in the direction of the Iteration/Team goal. Make a decision and communicate it. The exception is busy work and unplanned work - that will kill us - better to help someone else. Move the team forward. If you can’t, move a member of the team forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Principle 1**; General statement that is true 90% of the time: Better to always move forward than not, as long as we are moving forward in the direction of the Iteration/Team goal.
The exception is busy work and unplanned work - that will kill us - so it's better to help someone else instead.  Move the team forward. If you can’t, move a member of the team forward.
Make a decision and communicate it.
```

## Process changes

> The introduction of the 1-week iterations address the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The introduction of the 1-week iterations addresses the following:
```

1. How to prevent waiting

> 1. What are the queue on the board and their purposes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. What are the different queues in the board and their purposes
```

1. How do deal with getting block
1. Process time-box and evaluation
1. How will the ceremonies change

### 1. How to prevent waiting

1. Ask for help. (engineering slack)
1. Refer to **Principle 1** if help cannot come immediately
    1. Pull something new from the committed queue
    1. Help someone else (who is already working on a tasks)
    1. Avoid unplanned work
    1. Raise this in the retrospective

> ### 2. What are the queue on the board and their purposes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. What are the different queues in the board and their purposes
```

1. Work that is not related to grant/funding raising will follow the normal product process

1. Work that is in the committed queue is expected to be completed by the end of the iteration **unless** new unplanned work is introduced from support requests in the grant writing process.

1. In the unlikely event that an engineer has ran out of work, find a way to support another engineer to complete their tasks, pull work from the committed queue, or make a decision on work to do next based on **Principle 1**. Note: Our goal is to reduce unplanned work. However, if we are forced to introduce unplanned work, this should be made clear to the team and should considered a topic of discussion in the subsequent retrospective.

### 3. How do deal with getting block

Getting blocked happens for various reasons. The most common is related to _unforeseen or poorly managed dependencies_. The guidelines for dealing with impediments (i.e. blockers) is:
1. Use the Engineering slack channel to ask for help (async)
1. Avoid unplanned work (see Principle 1) and [Accidental complexity](https://www.nutshell.com/blog/accidental-complexity-software-design).

> 1. We'll adopt Sync check-ins (15 minutes). This will help to create alignment in the team on what's the most important tasks to work on. The check-ins are just to surface progress, we we plan to work on next, highlight things that can derail delivery. Deep-dives are addressed through conversations after the sync (e.g. “can we talk afterwards?”)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. We'll adopt Sync check-ins (15 minutes). This will hel create alignment in the team on what's the most important tasks to work on. The check-ins are just to surface progress, what we plan to work on next, highlight things that can derail delivery. Deep-dives are addressed through conversations after the sync (e.g. “can we talk afterwards?”)
```

Reviewer 2: I think there's a typo in your suggestion 😅
